## Ada Essay Portion: Alla Bondarchuk

### Question One: Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?

Hello! In brief, I will stray from the question and give you a short introduction of who I am! My name is Alla Nikolayevna Bondarchuk. Yes, long foreign name, but I think it gives me character. I come from a huge family of ten kids and two parents who emigrated from Ukraine 25 years ago to start a new life in Seattle. Growing up in a large family as my own, I learned many useful “survival” skills and how to maneuver in life _mostly_ independently. I studied three years abroad in Israel and earned my BA degree in Government, specializing in Counter-Terrorism, Homeland Security and International Relations. I know, far from the realm of computer science, but I do not regret my experience!

Why am I interested in computer programming? In short, I love the idea of creating something. The fact that our world is moving exponentially into the IT realm makes me that much more excited to dive in and see what opportunities I may have to use my creativity and work in the field.

Here is where my inspiration came from: On May 10, 2010, at age 18, I was diagnosed with an auto-immune disease; Type 1 Diabetes. I was in shock to the point where I did not speak for about 3 days, as I sat in that hospital bed trying to let it all sink in. “What do you mean the beta cells in my body attacked the insulin producing cells in my pancreas and now I have to inject myself how many times with insulin in one day and there is no explanation?”  For those who are unfamiliar, unmanaged blood sugar levels can lead to severe complications years down the line such as blindness, liver/kidney damage, heart disease and nerve damage which may lead to amputation to name a few. I was shocked to say the least! Growing up, I made sure I lived off a healthy diet and joined all kinds of sport teams in school to stay active. But that’s life; it throws curve balls! After my silence broke, I cried uncontrollably for about a week afterward. When I was done with my pity party, I bounced back and made sure I had a game plan to face my new life change. I was determined to not let this “disability” stop me from living a long, healthy, and exciting life. Long story short, I worked into my daily routine preventative care techniques and learned a lot about my own body and how it reacts to stress, food, hormonal changes and more so that I lived as “normal” and balanced as an individual who did not have Type 1 Diabetes. I baffled the doctors to a point where they had to test me a total of three times to make sure I was not diagnosed incorrectly! This, however, was not a walk in the park; each new day, I face the same challenge. My story and lifestyle inspired many around me. Living a very holistic and “natural” lifestyle, people constantly asked me for tips to stay healthy and prevent common ailments such as the cold, flu and cough.

As the years went by, I had countless requests to start my own health blog/website. I always thought it was a nice idea, but I just did not have the time or invested interest at that time. It wasn’t until sometime last year that I began to seriously ponder the idea of a health blog. I knew that there were many people out there with the same condition as myself who could benefit from my own lifestyle tips on staying healthy. If I could help just ONE person with the same condition, I would be satisfied. But with a blog, I can reach so much more. BAM! My journey into CS (if I could call it that at that point) was conceived! I did not want to use an online template for my blog… that was easy. I wanted to build the blog from scratch. Like most of the applicants, I had zero experience. Through useful tutorials on YouTube, I began to learn HTML and CSS and build my blog. I absolutely loved it. From there, I began to brainstorm ideas on how I can incorporate a small program for people with Type 1 Diabetes to track their daily progress. I did not know how, but I was determined to learn. As the weeks went by, I began to practice programming languages on codecademy.com and learnhowtoprogram.com. The various Ruby assignments found in the ADA Jumpstart curriculum were challenging at first glance. After pouring over the material and finding online help, I managed to complete them to the best of my ability and upload them to [GitHub](www.github.com). GitHub was another foreign concept as well but I was proud to learn how to upload and “commit” my work through my computers terminal! didn’t think I would love learning it so much.  I came to the point where I knew for certain this is where I should be heading. With my busy schedule, I made time to practice programming and exposing myself more to the field. I have come to the point where my mind is fixated on programming and the desire to advance and learn burns within daily.

Exposure  CSS, HTML, Ruby, Ada’s Jumpstart Curriculum, [codecademy.com](www.codecademy.com), [learnhowtoprogam.com](www.learnhowtoprogram.com)

In all honesty, my exposure to the field spans no further than self-taught skills that were inspired by certain life circumstances, helpful learning websites such as codecademy.com and Ada’s Jumpstart Curriculum.  Simply, I discovered my love for computer programming and I am determined to move forward with this huge life change.  know it will not be an easy journey, but that is what excites me most. I cannot express enough the will and determination I have to make this my life. In addition, quitting my job and living off savings will not be easy and it used to scare me. After growing my savings account for a while now, I am ready to give myself completely to this program should I be accepted.

### Question 2: If you were accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?

In five years, I see myself working as a programmer. I have learned in life that I cannot pre-determine exactly what I want to do as a career choice; as of now, I have a clear direction and that is computer programming and development. I see myself working on a team and finding creative ways to problem solve and face challenges head on. As I become more exposed to the field, I know I will find the perfect fit. For certain, however, I will continue to work on my side project that stems from my personal background. I will make it a mission in life to help people who struggle with the same auto-immune disease I live with. I am excited at the concept that one day I can create a program that can help people in similar situations through information technology.

### Question 3: After reading Ada’s Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada’s vision for an inclusive and diverse community?

It is 2017 and I believe we should be far more inclusive with the field of Information Technology than where we are now. I believe that it is important to diversify the It field because of one simple truth: we all can learn from each other. The more diverse the background is, the greater the benefit. I do not believe that my perspective on life would be the same had I not come from a Ukrainian background and lived in the Middle East for three years. I have learned a great deal from people who come from all walks of life. Whether they were African-American, Hispanic, Muslim, Jewish, Gay, Trans, Caucasian and much more! I will make it a mission to help those around me succeed. I will make it a mission to be a supportive person and help those in need, just as I would appreciate someone to do the same for me. Ada is off to a spectacular start my making it a mission to diversify the field by preparing candidate from underrepresented communities. I believe Ada’s Vision and Inclusivity is admirable and should be emphasized by all schools and work places.

### Question 4: Tell us about a time you made a mistake and you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?

As a human being this question is difficult because I have made so many mistakes in my life. One thing I have left behind and changed for the better is procrastination. This may be such a generic answer, but I feel that had I not worked on this habit, I would not be where I am now.
In college, there was a time where I had to prepare a one hour seminar presentation. I thought to myself, “find information online, put together a presentation on PowerPoint and go from there!”. And that is exactly what I did. I waited until two days before and created a PowerPoint with enough information to last me an hour. It wasn’t until after I presented and what followed did I really kick myself and realize how unprepared I was. During the presentation, I stumbled a lot. I do not think it was from nerves, it was merely from the fact I did not know what I was presenting. Yes, I had material, but did I really know it all? After I presented, I was hit with so many questions by my fellow students and professor. I was not prepared to answer all of them and I was embarrassed to say the least. Horrified would be more of an accurate description.

After this debacle, I got off my high horse thinking I could just “wing” a seminar presentation again. I was going to be prepared next time! The following semester, I had another seminar presentation. I executed the following plan:
  * Map out my outline for the time I had to work with.
  * Allocate tasks to complete daily for each portion of my presentation.
  * KNOW the material I was presenting
  * Practice in front of a live audience (usually my sister)

Wow, the results were a complete 180 change from the first seminar presentation I had done the previous semester. With the preparation, I stood there confident and excited to be presenting something I had knowledge on. I was better prepared for the question asked during and post my presentation. I learned from that moment that if invest more time and effort into a game plan, I could tackle anything that was placed in front of me. Since then I incorporated these skills in my daily life and work.

In addition, through this experience I learned that my “learning style” is effective teaching and “doing”. I learn best hands-on and when I can teach information or skills to my peers.

In conclusion, I appreciate the time you took to read this essay. It is my hope that I conveyed clearly by determination and readiness to start my journey in the field of Information Technology as an Ada student. Thank you.
